README.md, before:

# Diminutive-Suffix-Productivity
- Juan Berríos | jeb358@pitt.edu | Last updated: March 19, 2020

- **Contents:**
  - [Code](https://github.com/Data-Science-for-Linguists-2020/Diminutive-Suffix-Productivity/tree/master/code)
    - [Corpus processing](https://github.com/Data-Science-for-Linguists-2020/Diminutive-Suffix-Productivity/blob/master/code/corpus_processing.ipynb) ([nbviewer](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/Data-Science-for-Linguists-2020/Diminutive-Suffix-Productivity/blob/master/code/corpus_processing.ipynb))
    - [Further cleaning and exploratory analysis](https://github.com/Data-Science-for-Linguists-2020/Diminutive-Suffix-Productivity/blob/master/code/cleaning_analysis.ipynb) ([nbviewer](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/Data-Science-for-Linguists-2020/Diminutive-Suffix-Productivity/blob/master/code/cleaning_analysis.ipynb))
  - [Data samples](https://github.com/Data-Science-for-Linguists-2020/Diminutive-Suffix-Productivity/tree/master/data_samples)
    - There are two files available. The `.txt` is a smaller sample for quick access that can be viewed online. The `.zip` file is a full sample that can be downloaded.
  - [License](https://github.com/Data-Science-for-Linguists-2020/Diminutive-Suffix-Productivity/blob/master/LICENSE.md)
    - This repository is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0.
  - [Progress report](https://github.com/Data-Science-for-Linguists-2020/Diminutive-Suffix-Productivity/blob/master/progress_report.md)
    - Periodical updates on the progress I make as I work on the project.
  - [Project plan](https://github.com/Data-Science-for-Linguists-2020/Diminutive-Suffix-Productivity/blob/master/project_plan.md)
    - Summary, goals, and scope of the project.

- **Project summary:**
  - Welcome! This is the repository for my LING2340 (Data Science for Linguists) term project. The purpose of this project is to do a cross-dialectal analysis of two competing Spanish diminutive suffixes (*-ito*, *-illo*) in terms of productivity. In order to quantify productivity, I use statistical measures (e.g., Baayen's *P*), which can be used to provide empirical grounding for descriptive claims made in the literature about the prevalence of each suffix. Lastly, this analysis also considers dialectal variation, given that varieties of Spanish might not necessarily display the same trends.

Commit message:

Updated README.md, progress report, project plan and .gitignore

README.md, after:

# Diminutive-Suffix-Productivity
- Juan Berríos | jeb358@pitt.edu | Last updated: April 11, 2020

- **Contents:**
  - [Code](https://github.com/Data-Science-for-Linguists-2020/Diminutive-Suffix-Productivity/tree/master/code)
    - [Corpus processing](https://github.com/Data-Science-for-Linguists-2020/Diminutive-Suffix-Productivity/blob/master/code/corpus_processing.ipynb) ([nbviewer](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/Data-Science-for-Linguists-2020/Diminutive-Suffix-Productivity/blob/master/code/corpus_processing.ipynb))
    - [Further cleaning and exploratory analysis](https://github.com/Data-Science-for-Linguists-2020/Diminutive-Suffix-Productivity/blob/master/code/cleaning_analysis.ipynb) ([nbviewer](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/Data-Science-for-Linguists-2020/Diminutive-Suffix-Productivity/blob/master/code/cleaning_analysis.ipynb))
    - [Statistical analysis](https://github.com/Data-Science-for-Linguists-2020/Diminutive-Suffix-Productivity/blob/master/code/statistics_analysis.ipynb) ([nbviewer](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/Data-Science-for-Linguists-2020/Diminutive-Suffix-Productivity/blob/master/code/statistics_analysis.ipynb))
  - [Data samples](https://github.com/Data-Science-for-Linguists-2020/Diminutive-Suffix-Productivity/tree/master/data_samples)
    - There are two files available. The `.txt` file is a smaller sample for quick access that can be viewed online. The `.zip` file is a full sample that can be downloaded.
  - [Figures](https://github.com/Data-Science-for-Linguists-2020/Diminutive-Suffix-Productivity/tree/master/figures)
    - Visualizations generated while processing and analyzing the data.
  - [License](https://github.com/Data-Science-for-Linguists-2020/Diminutive-Suffix-Productivity/blob/master/LICENSE.md)
    - This repository is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0.
  - [Progress report](https://github.com/Data-Science-for-Linguists-2020/Diminutive-Suffix-Productivity/blob/master/progress_report.md)
    - Periodical updates on the progress I make as I work on the project.
  - [Project plan](https://github.com/Data-Science-for-Linguists-2020/Diminutive-Suffix-Productivity/blob/master/project_plan.md)
    - Summary, goals, and scope of the project.
  - [Guestbook](https://github.com/Data-Science-for-Linguists-2020/Class-Plaza/blob/master/guestbooks/guestbook_juan.md)
    - Hosted in a collaborative class repository.

- **Project summary:**
  - Welcome! This is the repository for my LING2340 (Data Science for Linguists) term project. The purpose of this project is to do a cross-dialectal analysis of two competing Spanish diminutive suffixes (*-ito*, *-illo*) in terms of productivity. In order to quantify productivity, I use statistical measures (e.g., Baayen's *P*), which can be used to provide empirical grounding for descriptive claims made in the literature about the prevalence of each suffix. Lastly, this analysis also considers dialectal variation, given that varieties of Spanish might not necessarily display the same trends.
  - The data set used in this project is the [Corpus del Español Web/Dialects](https://www.corpusdelespanol.org/web-dial/), a 2-billion word, POS-tagged corpus that covers all Spanish-speaking countries. It has an online interface where advanced queries can be made and full exploration of the data set can be made by [purchasing a license](https://www.corpusdata.org/spanish.asp).
